adding component structure chapter (#54)
infinum/eightshift-docs: website/docs/basics/helpers-php.md

---
id: helpers-php
title: PHP
sidebar_label: PHP
---

[![docs-source](https://img.shields.io/badge/source-eigthshift--libs-blue?style=for-the-badge&logo=php&labelColor=2a2a2a)](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-libs)

## ensureString

Makes sure the output is string. Useful for converting an array of components into a string.

> If you pass an associative array it will output strings with keys, used for generating data-attributes from array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you pass an associative array it will output strings with keys. Used for generating data-attributes from an array.
```

- @param array|string $variable Variable we need to convert into a string.
- @throws ComponentException When $variable is not a string or array.
- @return string

## classnames

Converts an array of classes into a string which can be echoed.

- @param array $classes Array of classes.
- @return string

## render

Renders a components and (optionally) passes some attributes to it.

> Note about "parentClass" attribute: If provided, the component will be wrapped with a
> parent BEM selector. For example, if $attributes['parentClass'] === 'header' and $component === 'logo'
> are set, the component will be wrapped with a <div class="header__logo"></div>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note about the `parentClass` attribute: If provided, the component will be wrapped with a parent BEM selector.

For example, if `$attributes['parentClass'] === 'header'` and `$component === 'logo'` are set, the component will be wrapped with a `<div class="header__logo"></div>`.
```

- @param string $component Component's name or full path (ending with .php).
- @param array  $attributes Array of attributes that's implicitly passed to component.
- @param string $parentPath If parent path is provides it will be appended to the file location. If not get_template_directory_uri() will be used as a default parent path.
- @throws \Exception When we're unable to find the component by $component.
- @return string

## getManifest

> Get manifest json. Generally used for getting block/components manifest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Get `manifest json`. Used for getting block/components manifest.
```

- @param string $path Absolute path to manifest folder.
- @throws \Exception When we're unable to find the component by $component.
- @return array

> ## responsiveSelectors
> 
> This function is the exact same equivalent as JavaScript function on this [link](helpers-javascript).
> 
> ## checkAttr
> 
> This function is the exact same equivalent as JavaScript function on this [link](helpers-javascript).
> 
> ## selectorB
> 
> This function is the exact same equivalent as JavaScript function on this [link](helpers-javascript).
> 
> ## selectorE
> 
> This function is the exact same equivalent as JavaScript function on this [link](helpers-javascript).
> 
> ## selectorM
> 
> This function is the exact same equivalent as JavaScript function on this [link](helpers-javascript).
> 
> ## selector
> 
> This function is the exact same equivalent as JavaScript function on this [link](helpers-javascript).
> 
> ## selectorCustom
> 
> This function is the exact same equivalent as JavaScript function on this [link](helpers-javascript).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## responsiveSelectors

This function is the PHP equivalent of the JavaScript function on this [link](helpers-javascript).

## checkAttr

This function is the PHP equivalent of the JavaScript function on this [link](helpers-javascript).

## selectorB

This function is the PHP equivalent of the JavaScript function on this [link](helpers-javascript).

## selectorE

This function is the PHP equivalent of the JavaScript function on this [link](helpers-javascript).

## selectorM

This function is the PHP equivalent of the JavaScript function on this [link](helpers-javascript).

## selector

This function is the PHP equivalent of the JavaScript function on this [link](helpers-javascript).

## selectorCustom

This function is the PHP equivalent of the JavaScript function on this [link](helpers-javascript).
```

Hopefully the naming will also be changed.

## restResponseHandler

> Ensure correct response for rest using handler function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure the correct response for REST using the handler function.
```

- @param integer     $code Response Status code.
- @param string      $status Response Status name (success/error).
- @param string|null $msg Response Message.
- @param array|null  $data Response additional data.
- @return \WP_REST_Response|\WP_Error If response generated an error, WP_Error, if response is already an instance, WP_REST_Response, otherwise returns a new WP_REST_Response instance.

## isValidXml

> Check if XML is valid file used for svg.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check if XML is valid. Used for validating SVG files.
```

- @param string $xml Full xml document.
- @return boolean

## isJson

Check if json is valid

- @param string $string String to check.
- @return bool

## flattenArray

Flatten multidimensional array.

- @param array $array Multidimensional array.
- @return array

## sanitizeArray

> Sanitize all values in an array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sanitize all the values in an array.
```
